The Matrix: With The Matrix, Andy and Larry Wachowski crafted one of the most exhilarating sci-fi/action movies of the 1990s|?
In the not too distant future in an insipid, characterless city, a young man named Neo (Keanu Reeves) sits alone at home by his monitor, waiting for a sign--from what or whom he doesn't know--until one night, a mysterious woman named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) introduces him to Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)|?
A messiah of sorts, Morpheus presents Neo with the truth about his world by shedding light on what the Matrix is--a reality beyond reality that controls everyone's lives, in a way Neo can barely comprehend|?
With mind-boggling, technically innovative special effects and a thought-provoking script that owes a debt of inspiration to the legacy of cyberpunk fiction, this is a thinking man's journey into the realm of futuristic fantasy, a dreamscape full of eye candy that will satisfy sci-fi, kung fu, action, and adventure fans alike|?
The Matrix Revisited: The Matrix Revisited provides a wealth of Matrix arcana, delivered by the 1999 blockbuster's principal cast and crew|?
The main course in this 163-minute feast is a two-hour documentary covering virtually every aspect of production, with teasing glimpses of fight training on the not-yet-released Matrix sequels|?
Of greater interest is the sheer depth of filmmaking coverage, with intelligent and amusing anecdotes and insights from all the major players (including graphic artist Geof Darrow, given overdue credit for his outstanding conceptual designs)|?
Fight choreographer Yuen Wo-Ping is also a fascinating subject, and his early action-blocking videos are included for comparative study|?
Another segment allows obsessive fans to express their fanatical zeal for all things Matrix, and a look at the in-production Matrix anime project gives them another source of inspiration|?
While you're pondering which pill to take (red or blue?), The Matrix Revisited should help you decide|?
The Matrix Revisited: A fitting supplement to the feature-packed Matrix DVD, The Matrix Revisited provides a wealth of Matrix arcana, delivered by the 1999 blockbuster's principal cast and crew|?
By following up their debut thriller Bound with the 1999 box-office smash The Matrix, the codirecting Wachowski brothers--Andy and Larry--annihilated any suggestion of a sophomore jinx, crafting one of the most exhilarating sci-fi/action movies of the 1990s|?
Set in the not too distant future in an insipid, characterless city, we find a young man named Neo (Keanu Reeves)|?
A software techie by day and a computer hacker by night, he sits alone at home by his monitor, waiting for a sign, a signal--from what or whom he doesn't know--until one night, a mysterious woman named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) seeks him out and introduces him to that faceless character  he has been waiting for: Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)|?
A messiah of sorts, Morpheus presents Neo with the truth about his world by shedding light on the dark secrets that have troubled him for so long: "You've felt it your entire life, that there's something wrong with the world|?
You don't know what it is, but it's there, like a splinter in your mind, driving you mad|?
" Ultimately, Morpheus illustrates to Neo what the Matrix is--a reality beyond reality that controls all of their lives, in a way that Neo can barely comprehend|?
Neo thus embarks on an adventure that is both terrifying and enthralling|?
Pitted against an enemy that transcends human concepts of evil, Morpheus and his team must train Neo to believe that he is the chosen champion of their fight|?
With mind-boggling, technically innovative special effects and a thought-provoking script that owes a debt of inspiration to the legacy of cyberpunk fiction, this is much more than an out-and-out action yarn; it's a thinking man's journey into the realm of futuristic fantasy, a dreamscape full of eye candy that will satisfy sci-fi, kung fu, action, and adventure fans alike|?
Although the film is headlined by Reeves and  Fishburne--who both turn in fine performances--much of the fun and excitement should be attributed to Moss, who flawlessly mixes vulnerability with immense strength, making other contemporary female heroines look timid by comparison|?
And if we were going to cast a vote for most dastardly movie villain of 1999, it would have to go to Hugo Weaving, who plays the feckless, semipsychotic Agent Smith with panache and edginess|?
As the film's box-office profits soared, the Wachowski brothers announced that The Matrix is merely the first chapter in a cinematically dazzling franchise--a chapter that is arguably superior to the other sci-fi smash of 1999 (you know|?
the one starring Jar Jar Binks)|?
